- [Instructor] The concept of hashing is critical
to many applications within computer science
and the cryptography area is no different.
In cryptography,
we focus on cryptographically strong hash algorithms.
What is a cryptographic hash, you may ask?
Essentially, it's the same as any other hash
with a little bit more detail involved.
It's a hash function that takes an arbitrary input
and produces a fixed-sized output.
That's one of the key differences
is that fixed-sized output.
A cryptographic hash should also be easy to calculate.
However, it should be very difficult if not impossible
to find the original input that yielded that output
that was so easy to calculate.
It also should be very difficult if not impossible
to duplicate with multiple unique inputs.
A cryptographic hash is also known by several other terms
and I wanna talk about 'em briefly just in case you see them
throughout the literature.
These terms are things like digital fingerprint,
or digest, or message digest,
which is how we'll actually see it referenced in the JCA.
Finally is checksum which you may have seen
when you've downloaded files throughout the internet.
You may see an NV5 checksum of that binary
so that you can ensure that it is the exact size
and the exact binary content that the producer created.
Now, often you'll hear the term of a cracking a hash
and I really wanna define what that means
to crack a cryptographic hash.
Essentially, there's a couple ways to do that.
The first is to find an algorithm that can be used
to generate a collision between two hashes.
Now, this is very difficult
the more advanced the hash algorithm is and some hashes,
however, have become susceptible to collision attacks.
Another is finding an algorithm to identify a unique
and different input that will yield a given hash.
Now, this is similar to a collision,
but instead of focusing on colliding,
you're focusing on finding another input
through the use of an algorithm.
A couple of the most common hashes
that we still see used today
that are considering cracked
from a cryptographic perspective are MD5 and SHA-1.
Any time you're actually using these hash algorithms
to do security-type work,
you should stop and rethink your life choices.
If you're doing just simple checksums on files,
you might be okay,
but just keep in the back of your mind
that these are technically broken hashes.
Now, what are some of the actual uses of hashes?
First and foremost is digital signatures.
We're actually gonna take a look
at the digital signature engine in the next chapter.
Another is digital fingerprints and this is very similar
to checksums where you're actually printing a file
with a hash so that anyone who downloads that file knows
that it matches the exact size and content that you created
when you put it out there for them to download.
Another very popular use case and one that, in my opinion,
is not used enough is the logging of sensitive data.
Let's say, for instance, you're running a system
that has email addresses.
Well, you know that you shouldn't log in the email address
because that's personally identifiable information.
However, if you hash that email address
and then log the hash,
you can still find the original email address
by performing the same hash and then searching the logs
for that hashed value.
This can be leveraged in many different use cases
in your organization where sensitive data
or even secured data needs to be logged in a secure manner.
Finally and probably the most common use case
of hashes is saving passwords.
But, I wanna leave a little bit of a caveat
to that saving passwords because what we're gonna do
in JCA really isn't sufficient enough for the most part
for saving passwords in modern-day computer science.